COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2
Part B – Machine Learning and Software Integration
 Due 11:59pm Sunday 25 May 2025 (Week 11)
 Contributes 50% to your Assignment 2 result.
 Group of 3-4 students.
The Part B of Assignment 2 (2B) requires you to work with your group to implement ML algorithms to train
ML models for traffic prediction and integrate the traffic predictor with Part A to develop a fully functioned
TBRGS.
In Part B of Assignment 2, the team can use any machine learning technique or combinations of them. You
should take advantage of existing libraries such as PyTorch, tensorflow, Keras, Theano, etc. We will provide
you with a small dataset from VicRoads for the city of Boroondara that contains only the traffic flow data (the
number of cars passing an intersection every 15 minutes). You should use this dataset for the following
purposes: training ML models for predicting traffic conditions and testing/evaluating the performance of your
models. At the very least, your TBRGS system will need to include the two basic deep learning techniques
LSTM and GRU. Your TBRGS system will also need to implement at least one other technique (to be
identified by you and approved by your tutor) to train another machine learning (ML) model and give a
comprehensive comparison between different models. Your program will at least need to implement the
following features:
 At the minimum, the TBRGS will have to be able to train ML models using the Boroondara dataset and
give meaningful predictions based on these models
 A GUI will be available for the user input, parameter settings and visualisation (and a configuration file
for the defaults).
The Traffic-based Route Guidance Problem
In this problem, there are four main tasks for the team:
1. Implement data processing program to extract data from the given dataset and store it in appropriate
data structures to enable ML models to be trained/tested;
2. Implement ML algorithms to train ML models for traffic flow prediction using the provided dataset.
3. Implement a travel time estimation for each edge on the map of the Boroondara area.
4. Integrate Part A of Assignment 2 with the TBRGS to replace the nodes by the intersections, the cost
of each edge by the travel time and perform the calculation to find the top-k paths to travel from O to
D for any given pair (O,D) of origin and destination.
System requirements
For this assignment, we expect that the team will implement data processing methods and various ML
algorithms (including LSTM and GRU) to train ML models for traffic prediction. The team will need to use the
given dataset for training and also testing the ML models to evaluate their performance.
The team will also need to port the programs you developed previously for Assignment 2A to enable it to
search for optimal paths on the Boroondara map. The edge cost will need to be replaced by the predicted
travel time and subsequently, the optimal paths can be calculated and returned.
The basic version of TBRGS will be for the Boroondara area. A user can specify the origin and destination of
their trip as the SCATS site number (e.g. origin O = 2000 [intersection WARRIGAL_RD/TOORAK_RD] and
destination D = 3002 [intersection DENMARK_ST/BARKERS_RD]). The system then returns up to five (5)
routes from O to D with the estimated travel time along each route. To simplify the calculation, you can make
a number of assumptions: (i) The speed limit on every link will be the same and set at 60km/h; (ii) the travel
time from a SCATS site A to a SCATS site B can be approximated by a simple expression based on the
accumulated volume per hour at the SCATS site B and the distance between A and B (We will provide a
simplified way to convert from traffic flow to travel time; See the document Traffic Flow to Travel Time
Conversion v1.0.PDF on Canvas); and (iii) there is an average delay of 30 seconds to pass each controlled
intersection. Note that, the objective is not to better Google Maps but to utilise the AI techniques you have
Page 1 of 3