COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2
Report: Clear and provide sufficient information about the problem and your algorithm/solution 15
AND the insights you have obtained through your program.
Research: If you show some initiatives in researching about the problem and solutions, or 15
carrying out extensive tests to provide interesting data about the algorithms, or getting some
clever optimization, etc. with a well-written Research section in the report to discuss and
demonstrate these initiatives
Total 100
You need to follow good programming practice (e.g., well-designed, well-structure codes with Up to
clear and helpful comments). Failure to do so get penalty. -10
For each individual student: (the maximum mark a student can get for Assignment 2B is 100
and the minimum mark is 0) Mark
Up to
Failure to provide in class updates of the assignment progress to your tutor. -40
Failure to contribute to the work performed by the team or to collaborate with other team Up to
members to achieve the desired outcomes for the project. -80
Some ideas for research initiatives
- The standard version of the system only deals with a small area of Melbourne (the city of
Boroondara) and uses a very small dataset (traffic volume data for the month of October 2006).
Under this research initiative, you can look at more comprehensive datasets from VicRoads for the
whole Victoria in multiple years. Data processing for large amount of data will be a challenge.
- The provided dataset may not provide you with details you need. You may want to consider other
sources of open data. A good dataset can be found here:
https://discover.data.vic.gov.au/dataset/traffic-signal-volume-data
Some other popular data sources are: https://github.com/mas-dse-
c6sander/DSE_Cohort2_Traffic_Capstone/wiki/PeMS-Data-Information and
https://www.data.gov.uk/dataset/9562c512-4a0b-45ee-b6ad-afc0f99b841f/highways-england-
network-journey-time-and-traffic-flow-data. Under this research initiative, you can choose one of
these datasets or a good data source you have access to (and get your tutor’s approval) and extend
this project to deal with the selected network and dataset.
- Visualising your system predictions and route recommendations. Inspired by Google Maps Traffic,
can you build something similar using open source resources such as OpenStreetMap?
Note: For some reason, the Latitude and Longitude of the SCATS sites do not map correctly to the
actual intersections on Google Maps, you’ll have to make adjustments to overcome this issue.
- For other ideas, please feel free to do the research yourselves and discuss with your tutors to get
their approval first before doing the research component.
Page 3 of 3