COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2
learned (e.g., machine learning for forecasting traffic volume, graph-based search for optimal paths) to solve
a real-world problem.
Report file
You must also include a report which has to be either in Microsoft Word or in PDF whose name is your Team
ID (for example, 123.PDF) containing your report. The aim of this report is for you to summarise your
understanding of the problem and the algorithms you have used to solve the problem. We are most
interested in the insights you have gained, especially those using data obtained by running your
software.
Report Details: The report must be between 8 and 10 pages (excluding cover page and TOC).
• Cover page: including details of all group members (i.e., full names and student IDs), signed by all
members of the group.
• Table of contents (TOC).
• Instructions: Basic instructions of how to use your program. You can also include a note containing
anything else you want to tell the marker, such as how to use the GUI version of your program, and
something particular about your implementation.
• Introduction: Introduce the Traffic Prediction and Traffic-based Route Guidance Problem and
concise information about the algorithms the team have implemented.
• Features/Bugs/Missing: Include a list of the features you have implemented. Clearly state if a
required feature has not been implemented. Failure to do this will result in penalties. Include a list of
any known bugs. Also, anything else you want to tell the marker, such as how to use the GUI version
of your program, and something particular about your implementation.
• Testing: Provide an overview of the test cases you have created to test your program (either
manually or automatically). Report the results of testing your program. By testing, we refer to both
the evaluation of the ML models and the software testing you have conducted to ensure that the
software works well.
• Insights: Present and discuss the qualities of different ML algorithms used in your assignment.
Which algorithms are better and why? Use data collected to support your points.
• Research (if applicable): If you managed to do some additional research to improve the program in
some ways, please report it here.
• Conclusion: Conclude with a discussion about ML algorithms and their suitability to the problem
and about the integration of different modules to produce the end-to-end TBRGS. Include thoughts
about how you could improve performance.
• Acknowledgements/Resources: Include in your report a list of the resources you have used to
create your work. A simple list of URL's is not enough. Include with each entry a basic description of
how the person or website assisted you in your work.
• References: Cite the sources you referred to in your Assignment (implementation, report, etc.)
Tips:
• All figures and tables need to be properly captioned with sensible descriptions.
• Report presentation should include header/footer information (pages numbers, etc.)
Marking Scheme:
Requirements (or equivalent sections)
Mark
Implement appropriate data processing programs to extract data from the provided dataset and 9
store data in appropriate data structures to enable ML models to be trained & tested
Implement at least 3 ML algorithms (including LSTM and GRU and an algorithm of your choice) 7(x3)
for traffic flow prediction.
Conduct comprehensive evaluation to compare different ML models 15
Integration of Part A & Part B to develop an end-to-end software for TBRGS 15
Testing: At least 10 test cases have been created to cover different problem scenarios. Test 10
results have been checked and documented.
Page 2 of 3